.TH GOPHERTUBE 1 "2025" "GopherTube" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
gophertube \- Terminal YouTube client for searching and watching videos

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gophertube
[
.B \-h
|
.B \-\-help
|
.B \-v
|
.B \-\-version
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B GopherTube
is a simple, modern terminal YouTube client for searching and watching videos using mpv. It features a fast, keyboard-driven interface built with Go, requiring no API key. GopherTube scrapes YouTube directly and plays videos with mpv, all from your terminal.

.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Fast YouTube search
Scrapes YouTube directly, no API key needed
.TP
.B Play videos with mpv
Seamless playback using the mpv media player
.TP
.B Download videos with yt-dlp
Select video quality and save to custom path
.TP
.B Downloads menu
Browse and play downloaded videos
.TP
.B Terminal image previews
Thumbnails shown in the terminal using chafa
.TP
.B Keyboard navigation
Navigate with arrows, Enter, Tab, Esc
.TP
.B TOML config
Configure search limit, default quality, and downloads path

.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
.TS
allbox;
l l.
Key	Action
_
Enter	Search / Play video
↑/↓	Navigate video list
Tab	Load more videos
Esc	Go back / Quit
.TE

.SH USAGE
.PP
Start the app:
.B ./gophertube
.PP
Type a search and press Enter. Use / to move, Enter to play, Tab to load more, Esc to go back. Thumbnails and video info are shown in the preview. mpv opens to play the selected video. Use the downloads menu to browse and play downloaded videos with thumbnail preview.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help message and exit
.TP
.B -v, --version
Show version and exit

.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
Create ~/.config/gophertube/gophertube.toml:
.PP
.nf
search_limit = 30
quality = "1080p"
downloads_path = "/home/$USER/Videos/GopherTube"
.fi

.SH REQUIREMENTS
.TP
.B Go 1.21+
Required for building from source
.TP
.B mpv
Media player for video playback
.TP
.B fzf
Fuzzy finder for interactive selection
.TP
.B chafa
Terminal image preview
.TP
.B yt-dlp
YouTube downloader for video downloads

.SH INSTALLATION
.SS Quick Install (One-liner)
.PP
.nf
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/KrishnaSSH/GopherTube/main/install.sh | bash
.fi
.SS Manual Installation
.PP
.nf
git clone https://github.com/KrishnaSSH/GopherTube.git
cd GopherTube
go build -o gophertube
./gophertube
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B gophertube
Start the application
.TP
.B gophertube --help
Show help information
.TP
.B gophertube --version
Show version information

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/gophertube/gophertube.toml
Configuration file

.SH BUGS
Report bugs and suggestions at:
.BR https://github.com/KrishnaSSH/GopherTube/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the GopherTube development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2025 GopherTube contributors. This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mpv (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR chafa (1) 